In Britain, the words "spare bus services" are not what you would like to hear.
It means that the train you want to go to is not going anywhere
and instead everyone has to drive a slow and noisy bus,
which way will last at least twice as much and will be much less comfortable.
If you have already left the first station,
then the railway company is obliged to bring you to your destination ...
but about how quickly, there is no rule anymore.
Spare buses are the nightmare of every traveler.
And that's why I was surprised to find out that for a few days
things turned:
Here, between two remote villages in the Scottish Lowlands,
a very rare spectacle appeared: a spare train for the bus.
- According to the normal schedule, it runs every weekend, usually from Easter to the end of September.
The idea of ​​a substitute train service came from discussions
among some villagers and volunteers on the track,
and when we realized that there would be enough volunteers to run throughout the week,
we have developed a schedule and now we have a full day service.
- B797, the tiny road between Leadhills in South Lanarkshire
and Wanlockhead in Dumfries and Galloway,
is closed for repairs. The detour takes about 45 minutes on the road ...
but by chance there is a volunteer narrow-gauge railway that connects them.
- Everyone here is a volunteer, there are no paid employees in Leadhill.
We are all here in our spare time.
Tomorrow I will be a conductor, but today I am a driver.
We have all possible other duties.
- They're using those people going to the doctor,
people commuting to work at the lead mining museum,
and a few more places.
And yes, it looks a bit mad,
but you know what? It works.
And it's not often when you come across a violation of your route,
which will improve your day.
- The remarks were great this week.
We like it for villagers and we have several extra tourists,
who normally would not travel during the week.
So it's a good promotion of the route,
and it helps the villagers!
- Thank you all to the railways in Leadhills and Wanlockhead!
If you watch this video on the day of uploading to YouTube or the next one,
you still have a chance to go through this service!
Details and link are in the video label,
along with the dates when steam trains travel this summer on this route.
Translated by: Xeotroid